Cloud Platform Operational Processes and Support Doc (#125)
ministryofjustice/cloud-platform-user-guide: source/documentation/reference/operational-processes.md

# Cloud Platform Operational Processes

This is a record of the operational processes that we will use to support our users and to maintain the cloud platform.

## Hours of support

> Our hours of providing support are 10am - 5pm. During this time we will work on support requests from teams and make sure someone is available to answer questions in [`#ask-cloud-platform`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C57UPMZLY/) and look at PR request notifications for the cloud-platform-environments repo on [`#cloud-platform-notify`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/CA5MDLM34/)

Reviewer: Do we need to clarify that 'ask-cloud-platform' is a slack channel, and/or that users don't need to post anything in 'cloud-platform-notify' because it's an automatic notifications channel?

Author: fixed

Outside of these hours we will respond to [high priority](#prioritising-incidents) incidents as per our [on call](#our-on-call-process) process.

## Working hours

A member of the support team will be available online from 9am and until 6pm. This team member can be working remotely. We are doing this so that we cover incident response for the time when the person on call is coming into the office or going home at the end of the day.

This support team member should be ready to respond to any high priority incidents.

## The support sub team

The support sub team will consist of 1-2 engineers. Each cloud platform team member will be on the sub team on a regular basis.

The key activities for the day are:

_On starting the day (9AM)_
At least one engineer to:

> * Check the [`#low-priority-alarms`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C8QR5FQRX/) and [`#high-priority-alarms`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C8PF51AT0/) slack channels for any issues to investigate

Reviewer: This bullet list formatting is broken. I think you need a blank line before the list.
<img width="896" alt="Screen Shot 2019-06-26 at 16 48 04" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2338/60194997-441c4180-9832-11e9-93b9-c93b2ee4e8b8.png">

* Check the board for any user requests that have been raised and not assigned
* Get a handover from the on call engineer about any issues out of hours
* Read through [`#ask-cloud-platform`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C57UPMZLY/) slack channel

_During support hours (10AM - 5PM)_
At least one engineer to:
* Actively participate in [`#ask-cloud-platform`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C57UPMZLY/) to field support requests, triage, prioritise and fix
* Monitor [`#high-priority-alarms`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C8PF51AT0/) and [`#low-priority-alarms`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C8QR5FQRX/) for incidents, triage, prioritise and fix
* Monitor [`#cloud-platform-notify`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/CA5MDLM34/) for cloud-platform-environments repo PR request notifications and cloud platform build notifications.
* Monitor user support requests being added to the board and triage them for priority

> The whole support team to:

Reviewer: Broken list formatting

Author: fixed

* Manage incident process for incidents in progress
* Work on user requests for larger work
* Work on support backlog stories

_Before ending the day (6PM)_

> At least one engineer to:

Reviewer: broken list formatting

Author: fixed

* Handover information about any planned work or in progress high priority incidents to on call engineer

## `#ask-cloud-platform` slack channel

The [`#ask-cloud-platform`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C57UPMZLY/) channel is our main entry point for support. We encourage people to ask questions and report problems in this channel and we'll do the best we can to help.

One engineer should be available to answer questions throughout the hours of support (10AM - 5PM).  

### Communication style

> In our responses we aim to be:

Reviewer: broken list formatting

In many cases it can be more helpful for the engineer on support to create the ticket rather than the person reporting the problem as you will be able to provide more relevant context.

Once they have created the ticket it will appear in the `Support New Issues` column of our [sprint board](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/cloud-platform-team-5ccb0b8a81f66118c983c189/board?repos=126507503,131595384,122635841,175829912). It can then be moved into the relevant columns as you work on it.

## `#cloud-platform-update` slack channel

[`#cloud-platform-update`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/CH6D099DF/) has been created to make broadcast communications, examples include:

* when there is planned work on a service (e.g. we are completing maintenance on Postgres RDS instance in prod)
* when there is an incident in progress (e.g there is a problem with Jenkins, no one can access it right now)

In these situations:

* try not to use notifiers like `@here` and `@channel` unless absolutely necessary
* perhaps use visual clues in your message to show it is an announcement
* commit to a time when you will update on the situation and keep that commitment

So for example:

> ```

Reviewer: This looks a bit weird using backticks to format it as a code block. I'd suggest using a blockquote instead, with >

<img width="863" alt="Screen Shot 2019-06-26 at 16 53 08" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2338/60195393-e89e8380-9832-11e9-92c2-1dbc00eeb9a2.png">

Author: changed

## Cloud Platform Operational Processes

This is a record of the operational processes that we will use to support our users and to maintain the cloud platform.

#### Hours of support

Our hours of providing support are 10am - 5pm. During this time we will work on support requests from teams and make sure someone is available to answer questions in Slack channel [`#ask-cloud-platform`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C57UPMZLY/) and look at PR request notifications for the cloud-platform-environments repo on [`#cloud-platform-notify`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/CA5MDLM34/)

Outside of these hours we will respond to [high priority](#prioritising-incidents) incidents as per our [on call](#our-on-call-process) process.

#### Working hours

A member of the support team will be available online from 9am and until 6pm. This team member can be working remotely. We are doing this so that we cover incident response for the time when the person on call is coming into the office or going home at the end of the day.

This support team member should be ready to respond to any high priority incidents.

> #### The support sub team

Author: changed

> The support sub team will consist of 1-2 engineers. Each cloud platform team member will be on the sub team on a regular basis.

Author: removed

* Read through [`#ask-cloud-platform`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C57UPMZLY/) slack channel

_During support hours (10AM - 5PM)_
At least one engineer to:

* Actively participate in [`#ask-cloud-platform`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C57UPMZLY/) to field support requests, triage, prioritise and fix
* Monitor [`#high-priority-alarms`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C8PF51AT0/) and [`#low-priority-alarms`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C8QR5FQRX/) for incidents, triage, prioritise and fix
* Monitor [`#cloud-platform-notify`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/CA5MDLM34/) for cloud-platform-environments repo PR request notifications and cloud platform build notifications.
* Monitor user support requests being added to the board and triage them for priority

The whole support team to:

* Manage incident process for incidents in progress
* Work on user requests for larger work
* Work on support backlog stories

_Before ending the day (6PM)_
At least one engineer to:

* Handover information about any planned work or in progress high priority incidents to on call engineer

#### `#ask-cloud-platform` slack channel

> The [`#ask-cloud-platform`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C57UPMZLY/) channel is our main entry point for support. We encourage people to ask questions and report problems in this channel and we'll do the best we can to help.

Reviewer 2: Can we also add a paragraph under this one along the lines of "The [`#ask-cloud-platform`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C57UPMZLY/) channel is also the place for community discussion. Users can provide feedback of their experience using the Cloud Platform, as well as share their learning with other users of the platform.

Author: sentence added

> One engineer should be available to answer questions throughout the hours of support (10AM - 5PM).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the Cloud Platform team will be available to answer questions throughout the hours of support (10AM - 5PM).  
```

Author: changed

> #### Communication style

Author: gone

In our responses we aim to be:

* friendly
* timely
* open - no question is stupid

When the solution is a quick one, it is good to have the whole conversation in the channel rather than in a direct message so that other people can search/see what the resolution was..

> #### What we communicate

Author: removed

The main purpose of [`#ask-cloud-platform`](https://mojdt.slack.com/messages/C57UPMZLY/) is to discuss the problems that people are having and help them to solve them.

#### User support tickets

If someone is asking for help that will be quick to do (less than 15 mins) or is mainly advice then keep the interaction in channel and get it done.

> If someone needs something that takes longer, is more challenging to complete or you find you've spent longer than 15 mins on it, then continue to talk in the channel but also ask the person asking for help to raise a ticket using the GitHub issue link: [long version](https://github.com/ministryofjustice/cloud-platform/issues/new?template=cloud-platform-support-request.md&labels=support%20team) and [short version](https://goo.gl/msfGiS).

Author: resolved

* Write up and publish the postmortem, giving a record of the timeline and any actions that have been agreed

We currently publish our postmortem reports on [pagerduty](https://moj-digital-tools.pagerduty.com/postmortems/). We have agreement to make these public and are in the process of working out how to do that.

#### Our on call process

Team members who are on call manage an on call rota in pagerduty. The on call rota consists of a primary engineer and a secondary engineer.

Team members that are new to the rota should ensure that they have a secondary who has enough knowledge and experience of the process to support them.

The hours of on call are 7AM–10AM and 5PM–10PM weekdays, 7AM-10PM weekends and bank holidays. 9AM - 10AM and 5PM - 6PM are additionally covered by a team member from support who is online during those periods.

On call team members will respond to high priority incidents out of hours and will work on those incidents for up to 1 hour. If the engineer is not able to resolve the issue within that timeframe they will:

* put the service into maintenance mode
* inform the affected team
* put together a plan to resolve the issue in hours

> #### Our documentation

Reviewer 2: I'd swap the two paragraphs round so that the Cloud Platform stuff comes first and TD comes after.

Reviewer 2: I also wonder if we should reference the User Guide as a core part of the Product and our front door to the Cloud Platform.

Author: sections changed over

Reviewer 2: I was thinking that whole documentation section should read something like:

#### Our documentation

All Cloud Platform documentation is openly available in Git repos stored on Github. The starting point for this documentation is the [Cloud Platform repo](https://github.com/ministryofjustice/cloud-platform).

For using Cloud Platform we have created the [Cloud Platform User Guide](https://user-guide.cloud-platform.service.justice.gov.uk/). This guide is the "front door" to the Cloud Platform and contains concepts, tasks, walkthroughs and other reference to help teams use the Cloud Platform.

For our legacy systems based around the Template Deploy tooling, our documentation lives in [Confluence](https://dsdmoj.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PLAT/overview). This documentation includes architecture, runbooks and common issues.

For our current systems based around the Template Deploy tooling, our documentation lives in [Confluence](https://dsdmoj.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PLAT/overview). This documentation includes architecture, runbooks and common issues.

During the development of the Cloud Platform we are putting our documentation into Git repos stored on Github. The starting point for this documentation is the [Cloud Platform repo](https://github.com/ministryofjustice/cloud-platform)

> #### Measuring how we are doing

Reviewer 2: Please remove this section as we are not doing this. We will also be introducing OKRs with would replace these and possibly be published elsewhere.

Author: removed

Reviewer 2: I think you may have removed the wrong section. We should keep "Our documentation" and remove "Measuring how we are doing" 

In our documentation we should switch the order so that the Cloud Platform docs are referenced first followed by Template Deploy.

We do not currently have a process in place for measuring these but we are working on it.

> #### Our TD documentation

Reviewer 2: Not sure why this exists here?

Author: I guess we still need to point to it while TD lives even if its just for new CP team members? or point to to if users ask? We could move it but i think it needs to live somewhere i think?

Reviewer 2: Yes, but this reference should appear in the docs section that was removed by mistake. See comments in my other review.

Author: ok, sorted. Copy and paste error with wrong section. And changed over the order in the documentation section
